
Interview Turnkey/Owner
---------------------------------------
Find out what the turnkey provider or owner is like. Big question is if you can trust them. 
Lots of times just trying to gauge that - competency and trust.

- WHY ARE YOU SELLING? Figure this out to see if you can come up with a creative way for a win-win

Questions

- [Reputation on Bigger Pockets]
- Start with open-ended questions and just try to let them talk - get a gauge on them
- Can you tell me more about your company?
- What is your role in the process? Buy? Rehab? Sell? Property Management? Why are you selling?
- How do you vet your actual providers? (if they have some)
- Ask them "What separates you from other companies?"
- Can you send me the rent rolls, of current/previous tenants
- What kind of shape is the property in? Has any work been done recently? Do you have any documentation of that?

- Do you own the property? If not, who is the company/person who is selling it? Always better selling their own
- Was the property rehabbed? Who did the rehab? Always better to know the rehab workmanship personally
- Does it currently need any repairs? If so, what do you think the estimated costs will be?
- Can you tell me a little more about the neighborhood (want them to describe it in their own terms)
- Big 6 Cap Exp Questions - Find facts and also get a feel on how they answer. Ask Hey ball park numbers, 
  what would it cost to redo the roof, etc - just to get a feel. 1 Roof, 2 HVAC, 3 Foundation, 4 Plumbing, 
  5 Electrical, 6 Termites

Questions for a Turnkey Company
----------------------------------

1.  Does your company own the turnkey properties you are selling or are you a marketer?
    You will find that many “turnkey sellers” are actually just marketers selling actual turnkey providers 
    properties. These marketers typically mark up the price of the property a little but so they can get a 
    piece of the pie. There is no sense in working with a marketer when you can go direct to a turnkey 
    provider and cut costs and time. Cut out the middleman!!

2.  How long have you been in business as a turnkey seller?
    The longer they have been in business the better. There are many new providers popping out left and 
    right and although this isn’t necessarily a bad thing, having more experience selling turnkeys will 
    lead to a more efficient and better experience when buying.

3.  Do you own any rentals in the same neighborhoods you’re selling in? Do you stand by your product?
    It would be a good sign if the turnkey provider invests in their own properties and has their own 
    portfolio of rental investments in the same locale they are selling. If not, this could be a red flag.

4.  How many markets/cities do you sell in?
    Multiple cities and markets could mean the turnkey seller does not own the properties themselves and 
    are a marketer. What I’ve found is the best turnkey sellers only offer properties where they live.

5.  How many out of state investors do you work with?
    Do you have any investor referrals I can speak to first hand that have acquired 1 or more of your turnkeys?
    You are looking for a team that has experience catering to out of state investors. If they cannot provide 
    referrals of previous customers to talk to than that is a red flag.

6.  What types of neighborhoods do you purchase/sell properties in? A, B, C, D classes?
    The best turnkey properties typically fall in either the B or C class properties. A’s are usually too 
    expensive and there is no cash flow. D’s are high crime areas which you don’t want.

7.  What is the rehab process like on each property? What items are replaced?
    Ideally the properties provided from the turnkey provider should include a new rehab with all new or 
    newer mechanical’s including roof, HVAC, water heater, updated electrical, and updated plumbing.

8.  Can I fly out and take a tour of your operation and view available properties?
    It is highly recommended that you do fly out there and visit the company you are wanting to work with. 
    You need to see firsthand how they operate, who they are, and more importantly the quality of the 
    properties they have and locale. Nothing says more than seeing it for yourself. If they don’t provide this, 
    run! To read about my experience flying out and doing just this, read here.

9.  Do you provide a home warranty for the first year?
    Most turnkey providers will give you a first year’s home warranty which will replace any of the newly 
    replaced items free of charge if they go out on you. Nice to have!

10. Do you allow lender financing for purchasing your turnkeys?
    A legit and reputable turnkey provider will allow you to provide your own conventional financing. 
    This is a big deal because using conventional financing means an independent appraisal is required. 
    This covers your butt to make sure you are not over paying for the turnkey. You should be expecting to 
    pay no more than market value for whatever turnkey property you are interested in. If a turnkey seller 
    won’t allow an appraisal, run! Even if they tell you that they only accept cash offers because the 
    properties sell so quickly. They will always say this when they don’t allow financing. Just find another 
    company!
    If a turnkey seller won’t allow an appraisal, run!
    Tweet This

11) Do you offer any rental or maintenance guarantees?
    Some turnkey providers will offer a guarantee of some sort. Take this as a warning as this is really 
    more of a sales gimmick. If they do say yes, ask them if it applies when it really matters like years 2 – 4.

12) Will the turnkey property be fully occupied with a tenant before closing?
    A true turnkey company will provide property management, fill the vacancy and have an already cash 
    flowing property for you at the time of closing.

13) Do the properties come with appliances? (Fridge, Stove)
    Some turnkey providers do not supply this and you are caught off guard toward the end of the process 
    and will have to cough up more money for these two items. This does however vary by locale so be sure 
    to do research to find out of this is common to not include these appliances.

14) Can you provide a step by step process of what the turnkey purchasing is like with your company?
    They should be able to provide to you a rundown of all the steps involved when purchasing a turnkey 
    from the first step to the last step. It is very good to hear this as you’re not caught with any 
    surprises during the process.

15) Do you provide property management in-house or outsource to a 3rd party?
    Regardless the answer to this one, there is a whole set of property management questions that need to 
    be asked to whoever the property manager will be. It is preferred that they have the property management 
    team in-house in my opinion, as they will provide you better service since they know they will be dealing 
    with you in the future and are vested in this property. See property management questions below. 
    To see the top 10 qualities for a property management company, click here.

The questions above are specifically for the turnkey provider and how they operate. The questions below are 
meant toward the property management aspect of the turnkey business. Some turnkey companies will provide 
their own property management through a different company they own or they will outsource the property 
management to a 3rd party in which they have a partnership with. Either way works however be sure to ask 
the property management team the questions below.












