TAX DEDUCTIONS
================================


Rental Property Deductions
----------------------------------

Business Deductions - 
    - Cell phone purchase, service, Laptop/computers, TVs (education of business?)
    - Hire your kids
    - Dining (type 1 doing bus w someone 50%, type 2 traveling (outside normal commute 50%, type 3 company 
      event w majority not owners 100%) - can be alone, ) write down on receipt / calendar - Receipts are for 
      audit protection, not bookeeping (take a pic throw it away)
    - Entertainment 50% (Hobbies, Toys, Keep good records, Golfing, snowmobiles)??
    -Real estate education/software
      valid documentation - line on my credit card statement - date of payment and to who
      Can this can be claimed as Start Up costs - 5k max and then depreciation of rest over 15 years?
      (Since i took the courses before acquiring my rental)
      (or maybe not since i dont have an active business…)
      (make sure you tell your CPA that you decided to do Real Estate before you bought the package of training)


Advertising – include all general marketing and advertising costs. 
      These can include the cost to place rent signs in the front yard, to 
      advertise on certain websites or publications, to buy business cards, and to send mailers.

Auto and Travel – include all ordinary and necessary auto (to be discussed later) and 
      travel costs required to maintain your rentals. This should not include auto and travel costs 
      incurred to purchase your first rental or to expand your rental business into a new geographic 
      location. Also include 50% travel meals.
      Trips (as long as you go with the intent for business BEFORE you start it)

Cleaning and Maintenance – include all cleaning expenses to prepare a unit for a tenant or once a tenant 
    moves out. Include maid expenses here as applicable. You should also include maintenance expenses 
    such as painting, mowing, and small upkeep costs of the building, appliances, and equipment.

Commissions – include realtor or property management commissions paid to find a tenant for your unit.

Insurance – include homeowners, hazard, and flood insurance here. Do not pro-rate your annual insurance. 
    You will only report the amount of insurance that you actually pay to your insurance company, 
    not the amount that you pay into escrow.

    **A note about escrow – it’s very common to pay insurance and property taxes into escrow on a monthly basis. 
    This protects the lender from your failure to pay these expenses. It’s important to understand that when you pay these expenses into the lender’s escrow account, this is not a deductible expense for you. It is only deductible once the lender actually pays those expenses to the county/city or the insurance agent. That’s when you can deduct the expenses. Why? Paying into escrow is essentially moving money from pocket A to pocket B. It’s still your money and technically an asset on your balance sheet.

Legal and Professional Fees – include expenses related to attorney fees, accounting, and costs of 
    business/financial planning related to your rentals.

Management Fees – include the cost to hire an agent or property manager to manage your rental. 
    This may also include special service calls that the property manager incurs to check on the rental.

Mortgage Interest Paid to Banks – include the amount of interest reported to you by the bank on Form 1098. 
    This amount will be the entire interest the bank has received from you during the year, including the 
    interest you paid during closing.

Other Interest – include the amount of interest paid to third parties, whether they are private investors, 
    private businesses, crowdfunding platforms, or relatives. Also make sure that you have sent these people 
    or parties a Form 1099 showing the interest you have paid them. Without a Form 1099 in this case, 
    you may not be able to substantiate the deduction.

Repairs – include all repairs made to the property that were not considered capital improvements. 
    Expenses here will be small repairs and not the replacement of floors, roofing, etc. 
    You may also include De Minimis Safe Harbor expenses here if they are less than $2,500 and you 
    make the annual election.

Supplies – include the cost of incidental materials and supplies such as paper for printing, small tools, 
    and other small miscellaneous materials that don’t fit into another category.

Taxes – include all tax expenses incurred as a result of owning and operating the rental property. 
    This can include property taxes, school district taxes, and special easements or land taxes. 
    Do not include income taxes.

Utilities – include utility expenses that you have personally incurred, even if the tenant has 
    reimbursed you for them. Do not include utility expenses that the tenant has paid for without you 
    ever having to pay for it. The reason we include utility expenses here even if the tenant has 
    reimbursed you for them is that we are reporting the reimbursement as income at the top of 
    IRS Schedule E and we want to offset that income with the expense you incurred.

Depreciation Expense – include the depreciation expenses that you calculated. Depreciation is an 
    imperative part of IRS Schedule E; don’t mess it up!

Other (list) – include all other expenses incurred while operating the rental but that did not directly 
    fit into any of the categories above. Examples of these expenses may include bank fees, education, 
    HOA fees, subscriptions, cost of books, De Minimis Safe Harbor (if not reported in repairs), meals and 
    entertainment, and gifts to clients or tenants. You will itemize each of your “other” expenses on 
    a separate page.





Depreciation and Depreciation Recapture
-------------------------------------------

To recap the basics, upon the acquisition of a property the cost of the building and land are capitalized. 
If the building is a rental property or used in a trade or business, the cost attributable to the building 
is depreciated over 27.5 years (residential) or 39 years (non-residential) using the straight-line method 
for tax purposes. Land is non-depreciable therefore, no depreciation is permitted. In summary, the cost of 
the building is written off ratably over the life of the asset via annual depreciation deductions.

Depreciation deductions offer the property owner the tax benefit of a deduction at their personal ordinary 
income tax rates. Additionally, depreciation deductions reduce the cost basis of the property which 
ultimately determines the gain or loss upon the sale or disposition of the property. If sold as a 
long-term gain, under current tax laws, long-term capital gains tax rates range between 0% – 20% 
depending on the taxpayer’s level of income.

However, not all gains benefit from the long-term capital gain tax rates. Depreciation recapture is the 
portion of the gain attributable to the depreciation deductions previously allowed during the period the 
taxpayer owned the property. The depreciation recapture rate on this portion of the gain is 25%. The 
reasoning behind the depreciation recapture rules is since the taxpayer received the benefit of a 
depreciation deduction that offset ordinary income tax rates (a potential Federal tax savings of up to 39.6%), 
the government is not going to grant the most favorable capital gains rates on the portion of the gain 
relating to these prior depreciation deductions. The following examples illustrate the concept of 
depreciation recapture.

Assume a property owner acquired a building for $2 million (excluding land). Assume after 10 years the 
owner has taken $500,000 of depreciation deductions. The owner’s basis in the building is now $1.5 million. 
If the owner sells the building for $5 million, they will recognize a gain of $3.5 million 
($5 million less $1.5 million). It is often presumed the $3.5 million would be taxed at a capital gain 
rate of 20%. However, in this example, $500,000 of the gain would be taxed at the recapture rate of 25%. 
The remaining $3 million gain would be taxed at the 20% capital gain rate. The outcome in this example is 
an additional $25,000 tax cost (5% on $500,000). Larger transactions would obviously have larger implications.

Depreciation recapture is limited to the lesser of the gain or, the depreciation previously taken. 
Using the example above, assume the owner sells the building for $1.6 million resulting in a gain of 
only $100,000. Since the $100,000 gain is less than the $500,000 of depreciation deductions the recapture 
rate of 25% would apply to the entire \$100,000 gain.

In the event a property is sold at a loss the depreciation recapture rules do not apply. Assume in the 
above example the property was sold for $1.1 million. The property owner would simply report a loss of 
$400,000. No depreciation recapture calculations would be required.

The 25% depreciation recapture tax rate only applies to the portion of the gain attributable to real 
property. If a sales contract includes the sale of other assets, such as furniture and equipment, 
the gain relating to depreciation recapture on those assets would be taxed at the property owner’s 
ordinary income tax rates.









Section 179 Deduction
-----------------------------------------------
Section 179 of the IRS Code was enacted to help small businesses by allowing them to take a 
depreciation deduction for certain assets (capital expenditures) in one year, rather than 
depreciating them over a longer period of time. Taking a deduction on an asset in its first year 
is called a "Section 179 deduction." 

1. First, you purchase qualified property and start using it during the year.

2. Then, you sit down with your tax professional at tax time. You will need records on the date of 
   purchase, date, you started using the property, and all costs associated with the purchase 
   (like freight and setup).

3. You add up all the items of property that are qualified. You will need to read the IRS information 
   carefully to make sure your property is qualified.

4. Then you can take the 179 deduction by electing it (described below). The amount of the 
   deduction is the total cost of all of the property, up to $500,000 for each individual item of property. 
   The total Section 179 deductions for all property can't exceed the $2 million maximum.

Use IRS Form 4562 to Elect a Section 179 Deduction
The form used to report information for a Section 179 deduction is IRS Form 4562. This form collects 
information on business property acquired and put into service (see above). For more details on completing 
Form 4562, see the IRS instructions for this form.







Creative 280A Deduction - Meetings for your C-Corp in your own home 
---------------------------------------------------------------
Basically Charge your Corporation to use your home and your C-Corp pays for the use of your home for
a business meetings. Since you rent your home out for less than 15 days a year this event for you
is not taxable income. However, for your C-Corp its a deduction you can take. 

The code section (because everyone’s going to look it up) is Section 280A (g). It specifically states 
that if you rent out your home for less than 15 days during the calendar year, none of the income is 
taxable. Conversely, none of the rental expenses are deductible.

What arguments can the IRS make? As long as the space is used for business, there should be no issue 
as to the legitimacy of the deduction. You just have to prove the business use. The tax pros call that the 
business “nexus.”

 Prove the business use with specific documentation. If you have a monthly meeting, keep the minutes. 
 Craft the minutes with the reason you’re having the meeting outside your normal business location. 
 The standard reason is so that you’re not bothered by the interruptions of your normal business setting.

 Prove the reasonableness of the rental charge by getting a letter from a local hotel. If the Four Seasons 
 is charging $500 a day for a suite for a meeting, a note from them should be sufficient substantiation 
 for your $500 a day rental expense. On a monthly basis, that’s a $6,000 deduction (saving $2,100 in 
 tax each year if you’re in the 35% tax bracket) plus $6,000 in tax-free income.

 So long as you can substantiate the business connection and the reasonableness of the charge, the 
 deduction should be allowed.



http://www.reesnet.com/tax/planning/lvl05600.htm


